Most of the time, mills and CNC electrical components are designed and built to minimize electrical noise generated by they generate and re-introduce into the total milling circuitry. In some cases, however, as is the case with some components that can be bought from overseas suppliers, there is a significant amount of electrical noise generated when operating the mill. This noise can be radiated from the device and picked up by USB cabling, power wiring, and traces on circuit boards, or can simply be transmitted back through any wiring connected to the device to other connected devices. When this happens, you run the risk of this electrical noise interfering with normal communications and command execution for your mill, which can lead to communication ports locking up, odd movements, or skipped commands.

Correcting radiated noise is trickier than correcting line noise, as radiated noise must either be trapped and grounded at the source with a appropriate shielding (think Faraday cage), or your critical milling electronics must be shielded from their environment, which is now filled with this interfering electrical noise. Since the examples that are most likely to occur are noise transmitted over wiring, we'll focus on correcting that issue.

Using the Panther PCB mill as an example (it's shown to exhibit this problem in the past), it is very easy to remove this noise from the overall circuitry in your mill. In the case of the Panther CNC mill, the noise is being generated not by the mill itself, but by the spindle chosen in the setup shown in the image below. This spindle is a generic 220W DC brushed motor spindle that generates a lot of electrical noise that travels back down the power cable. The noise is so great that it interferes with the TinyG USB communications, even through the 24V switched power supply used (PSU) to power the TinyG. Since the PSU and the spindle are connected to the same 120V household circuit, the electrical noise can easily move from one device to another through the power cords. (It's important to note that this noise can travel to other devices in the house, as well, but that's out of the scope of this article.) 